Selenium or QTP ?

Browser Compatibility
Distribution
Application under test
Repository
Language support
Vendor support


Why Selenium?

Free and Open-Source
It has a large ser base and helping community
Cross-browsing cappability
Plataform compatibility
Support for different programing languages.

Whats is Seleniium ? Whats are its different components ? 

Selenium is one of the most popular Automation test suite
It is designned in a way to helps in automating web applications with a wide range of brosers and platforms.
It is Open Source.It's not a single tool it's a test suite. 


Components 
Selenium IDE - It a Record and Playback tool and it's distributed as Firefox plugin


Selenium RC - It's a server used in execution of the tests. (Decrecepated)


Selenium WebDriver - Directly communicates with the browser.


Seleniium GRID - It's used to distribuite the text execution on mutiple platforms and environment concurrently. That means Support Cross broswer


What is a Seleniium framework ?

It is a code structure for making code maintenace simpler and the code readability better.
The framework involvers braking the entire code into smaller pieace of code, which test a particular funcionality.
It can also be structured in a way the test cases can be executed from external application.
 
 

The Differents frameworks ?

Data Driven

It is the technique of separating the "data set" from the actual the case. It dependent of the test data.


Keyword driver

This technique in which all the operations to be performed are writeen separately from the actual test case.

Hybrid.

We use the best techiniques of boths.

What are the challenges and limitationg of Seleniium webdriver ?

Challenges 
It is difficult to test Image based application
Seleniium need outise support for reporting generation. It's dependent of TestNG or Jenkins
Canntor perform tests on web services like SOAP or Rest Using Selenium

Limitations
Cannot test mobile applications
Hangling the pop-ups it's difficult
Limiting reporting
It's not supposed to support Dynamic Content.

Drawbacks of The Selenium RC ?

It's decrecepated.
Server connection is required vefore executing the test script.
Selenium RC's architecture is more complication
Apis are less object oriented.
Selenium RC is slower since it uses a JavaScript program

How Seleniium Grid works ?

Grid is capable of  of coordinating the WebDriver tests/ RC Tests which can rim simulaneously on varios web Browsers.

Selenium Web Driver Capabilities ?

WebDriver is requeried for improve the support for handling multiple frames, pop -ups, multiple broswers and alerts.
And also helps on page navigate, dragn and drop features, and suport apex ajas ui bases elements.

List out the different test types which Selenium can support ?

For web-bases application testsin, Selenium can be used for functional testing and regression testing.
For CI CD Jekins, hudson, Quiackbuild


Why choose Python over Java ?

Python is faster
Java user traditional braces Python uses indentation
Pythons used dynamic typed


Whas is Selenese ? Different types of Selenese commands used ? 

Actions - Use to interect with the elements

Asserts - Assertions are used as checkpoints.

Accessors - accessors are used for stores values in a particular variable.

How to build a object repository ?



Explain about the wait ?

Implicit Wait = tells to the webdriver to wait for certain amount of time before it throws an exception
 

Explicit Wait = explictir waits are confined to a particular web element. Is code to wait for a certatin condition to occur before proceding further in the code.

Why to use the Selenium IDE ? 

Is the simplest and easisted the all tool. It allows you to record and playback the scripts.
It makes easier to learn Selenium.

What are Locatros in Selenium ?

Locators are defined as an adress that identifies a web element uniquely withn the webpage.

What the types of Locators Selenium ?

Id, Name, LinkTExt, PartialLinkText, CSS Selector, XPATH

How to use findElement and findElements ?

findElement to find the first match

How to work with Excel Files in Selenium ?

JXL
APACHE POI

What is a JavaScriptExecutor or  How to scroll using Selelnium?

JavaScriptExecutor is an interface that helps to execute JavaScript through SeleniumWebDriber

What is POM? Whats are its advantages ?

Page Object Model is a design patter in test automation to create an Object Repository for web UI elements.
Make automation framwrok friendly more durable and comprehensive.
Keeps the tests and lement locators separately.
Repository is Independent of Autoamtion Tests
Able to reuse page object methods
Pom is best applicable for the applications which contain mutiple pages
Easier to write because it usees the business domain language.


What is the page factory ? 
Page factory is an in-built page object model pattern send to initialize web elements which are defined in Page Objects 

POM and Page Factory difference ?

POM it is a class which represents the web page and holds the fucnionalities 

Factory It is a way to initialize the web elements within the page object when the instance is created.

How to handle mouse and keyboard and mouse actions ?

We handle using the Actions class.

What is an Actions Class ?

It handle special keboard and mose events using the Advanced User Interactions Apis

Can Selenium handle windows pop-ups ?

Using the alert class or using the robot class.

Robot class provides control over the mouse and keyboard.

How do you achive synchronization in WebDriver ?

It is a mechanism which involves more than on components to work paraller with each other 

types 

Uncondtional      Conditional

Take a screenshot in Selenium ?

TakesScreenShoot interface.

How to handle multiple windows in Selenium?

A windows handle is a unique identifier that holds the adress of all the windows. This is basically a pointer to a window, which returns the string value.

what are listners in Selenium ?

It is defined as an interface tat modifies the behavior of the sustem. Listners allow customization of report and logs.

TestNG features ?

Selelnium provides PROXY to redirect direct to the proxy.

how handle network latency in Selenium? 

driver.manager.pageloadtime()

how can you capture service-side log in Selenium?

In order to get the server-side log.

Java-jar.jar-log selenium.log

Selenium not suport database test. It can be partially done with java.jdbc api 






